{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Started 15 March 2016\
The Ides of March\
\
Trying to find R* (Rstar) parameter values\
\
++++++++++++++++++++\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Winner email
\b0 \

\b Stan Harpole
\b0  on 13 March 2016 (stan.harpole@idiv.de)\
\
Hi Lizzie, \
\
so great to hear from you!  We need to bring you here for a working group or sabbatical!\
Awesome that you are thinking about R*.  I just gave a talk about R* for terrestrial plants and that is one of the take home\'92s:  very untested.  Dave Wedin is the main one.  \
\
Eric Seabloom and I applied this to CA grassland communities (water and nitrogen).  I have some unpublished data from the same system showing R* nitrate vs R* light; Sophie Parker measured this again a few years later in a paper that has been rejected like 6 times now:(  \
\
Kath Everard did a really cool modelling paper from the CA data for water-light tradeoffs.\
\
From Cedar Creek, Ray Dybzinski had a really nice R* for N vs light paper.  Earlier I used the Cedar Creek monoculture gardens to use R* nitrate values as predictors of abundance.  Janneke and I did similar with biodiversity-overyielding.\
\
Stephanie Yelenik had a paper for plants using R*, and I am probaby missing others\
\
What I have started to map just last month, with that talk as the catalyst, is a review of R* for terrestrial plants (and why it is more complicated than a chemostat), so this is exciting to hear others are interested too.  This might be a great future working group topic, especially adding a modeling component\'85?  Let\'92s stay in touch about this.\
\
Attaching all of those papers here if they are helpful...\
\
Hope all is well in the new world!\
Stan\
\
\
Stan Harpole\
Professor, Physiological Diversity\
Helmholtz-Center for Environmental Research \'96 UFZ  |  iDiv: German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Research  |  Martin-Luther-Universit\'e4t-Halle-Wittenberg\
Deutscher Platz 5e, D-04103 Leipzig, Germany\
phone +49 341 973 3171 | Skype stan.harpole \
\
\
++++++++++++++++++++\
Close second:\
From Janneke Hill Ris Lambers on 13 March 2016\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Hey Lizzie,\
\
Things are a bit crazy with travel, but otherwise great! It's that blustery PNW spring you probably remember - sunny and warm one minute, raining and cold, windy, blustery, etc. Days are noticeably longer, which is great!\
\
I'm glad to hear Ailene is doing well - and I'm sorry I never followed up last fall (no really good excuse except the usual busyness...). I am also keen to get her to submit her last chapter soon - which reminds me I should prompt her on that! I didn't want to push last month b/c of her interview in Chicago.\
\
Ah - R*! Despite how influential these papers are (I think -maybe only in generating debate!), I am always surprised by how few studies really measure R* (lots mention the theory).\
\
Are you looking to get R* values for particular species, or just a group of representative species that make up a community? And were you hoping to get ballpark estimates for a model, or need exactly values (either directly from papers or from raw data)?\
\
The folks that I know of that have R* values of some sort are various folks who have worked with Dave (Tilman) at Cedar Creek - e.g. Ray Dybzinski and / or Stan Harpole (probably others).  Stan Harpole and Eric Seabloom I think have R* values from their work in California (I assume primarily N), and I have some R* values for a community of 11 annual California species (N and light, maybe water but I'd have to look). See the attached and this article: http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0106059.\
\
I feel sure there must be other values out there somewhere, but can't think of specific other folks. If you haven't already - I might also check the citation history of the 2005 review of the resource ratio hypothesis - that might yield some additional sources: http://www.ericlwalters.org/milleretal2005all.pdf. I would also chat with Ray and / or Stan -  I think they are likely to know of other groups that have quantified R*.\
\
Hope this is helpful, Janneke \
\
Follow up from Janneke on 18 March 2016:\
\
From me \'93PS: If you have any suggestions for ballpark parameterizations let me know -- I have not seen any parameterized R* storage effect models but then it's not the easiest thing to search for. \'94\
\
Hmm - that is a tough one! I wonder if it might also be worth chatting with Peter Adler- he has worked a bunch with storage effect models and coexistence? I don't know much about those models, but perhaps the actual values are less important than the magnitude of differences between species? Good luck! I look forward to hearing / seeing / reading how it all goes. Janneke \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
++++++++++++++++++++\
Emailed 
\b Elsa Cleland
\b0 : She suggested:\
\
- Miller et al. 2015 (not sure it is super useful for parameters on quick glance but good overview)\
- Dybzinski & Tilman 2007 \
\
\
}